content/singpass.md, before:

---
title: "Singpass for Work Permit / Special Pass holders"
url: "/singpass/"
layout: "baseof"
summary: singpass
---
## Quick Links

[Reset password](https://www.singpass.gov.sg/home/ui/online-reset-password/user-detail)

[Create a new account](https://www.singpass.gov.sg/home/ui/register/instructions)

[Update your phone number if your phone number is different from the one registered in Singpass](https://www.singpass.gov.sg/home/ui/update-mobile)

## If you have a Work Permit / Special pass

You will need the **SG Workpass** app to scan the QR code on the back of your pass to retrieve your pass' Date of Issue. 

Android: [download from Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=sg.gov.mom.sgworkpass&hl=en&gl=US&pli=1)

iOS: [download from the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/sg/app/sgworkpass/id1274061632)

## If you have a Special Pass and could not reset password / create a new account:

1. Scan your Special Pass with the SG Workpass App
2. Take a screenshot of that page (it shows that your pass is valid)
3. Email support@singpass.gov.sg and attach the screenshot

# Where to get help

1. Email singpass@singpass.gov.sg
2. Call 6335 3533
3. Go to a Singpass Counter: you can find one [here](https://www.singpass.gov.sg/home/ui/counter-locations). They are located in Community Clubs.

Commit message:

updated with Singpass FAQ info

content/singpass.md, after:

---
title: "Singpass for Work Permit / Special Pass holders"
url: "/singpass/"
layout: "baseof"
summary: singpass
---
## Quick Links

[Reset password](https://www.singpass.gov.sg/home/ui/online-reset-password/user-detail)

[Create a new account](https://www.singpass.gov.sg/home/ui/register/instructions)

[Update your phone number if your phone number is different from the one registered in Singpass](https://www.singpass.gov.sg/home/ui/update-mobile)

## If you have a Work Permit / Special pass

You will need the **SG Workpass** app to scan the QR code on the back of your pass to retrieve your pass' Date of Issue. 

Android: [download from Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=sg.gov.mom.sgworkpass&hl=en&gl=US&pli=1)

iOS: [download from the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/sg/app/sgworkpass/id1274061632)

## If you have a Special Pass and could not reset password / create a new account:

1. Scan your Special Pass with the SG Workpass App
2. Take a screenshot of that page (it shows that your pass is valid)
3. Email support@singpass.gov.sg and attach the screenshot

> Note: Singpass FAQ says that Singpass accounts expire 3 months after a Work Permit is cancelled. 
> https://ask.gov.sg/singpass/questions/clul2p4cf003s3b8g1podbru7?from=search 

# Where to get help

1. Email singpass@singpass.gov.sg
2. Call 6335 3533
3. Go to a Singpass Counter: you can find one [here](https://www.singpass.gov.sg/home/ui/counter-locations). They are located in Community Clubs.
