---
tags: ['100daysofcode']
date: "2022-09-03T00:00:00Z"
title: day 21
---

Took part in a Go workshop by Chuk organised by GeeksHacking, where we made a command line tool that interacts with the Boardgame Atlas API to search for board games. 

<!--more-->

[Slides can be found here](bit.ly/golang_for_programmers)

[alt link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1S2bS0Wvevd3_Cb8DwDXYD4Swwq_3IDlfVuFY1V2lesg/edit#slide=id.p )

# Go
Languages can be thought of in terms of STRONG vs WEAK typing, and static v dynamic 


# Where Go is used
- Infra like Kubernetes and Docker 
- Cloud native devt (writing RESTful [message-based] web apps; gRPC (another service style))
- Replacing existing infra such as CoreDNS/Caddy (reverse proxy - nginx is an alternative to Caddy. Chuk likes Caddy bc it just has one binary to deal with)

# Go Data Types
- string
- rune (equivalent of a char in JS)
- number int, uint (no negative numbers), floats
- complex 

```
var name string

var age uint8 = 21
```

# Arrays & Slices (dynamic arrays)

## Arrays (fixed size)
``` 
var name [5]string
```

## Slices

Looks like you declare the upper limit of memory it can have (e.g. 5 items) and then append items without necessary using all of the memory allocated 

TODO: look up arrays vs Slices


# Loops

# Pointers

Python etc have a concept of a reference - a pointer-like thing to an object 
- in Java, objects arrays etc are references but primitives are not references. 

Chuk: "You wont ask an F1 driver to ask slowly right. Sometimes you want the freedom to do stupid things [as an engineer]." 

```
name := "fred"

&name #gives you the address of a var 

*&name == "fred" # gives you contents of the address 
```

This allows you to have double pointers that allow "dynamic addressing" (TODO: look up)

And anything can be passed by reference or value into functions 


# Creating custom types 

```
type natural unit32
```

or create objects
```
type Customer struct {
    ...
}
```

Function types 
```
type Apply[T any] func(T,T)T 

# function takes 2 params of type T, and returns type T. 

```
# Visibility of vars
If a var starts with uppercase it is public, and lowercase is private. 

> Chuk: "You either see it or you don't"

# Class-like
Can write functions that are only accessible by certain structs 

Receiver function must be in the same module 

> Critique of Go: You extend or implement an interface, but there's no explicit stuff like that in Go. Go handles it implicitly where if your struct has methods of the interface, it is considered implemented. 
> 
> This makes reading code a bit difficult because a param can require a reader but you have to figure out which structs implement a reader, then hunt down the methods in that reader. 


TODO: Find out what's a thread ... Chuk is talking about threads but I don't know what it's about 

# Communicating between routines 

Use a built-in primitive called channels. 

To read: 
- [What are channels in Golang?](https://www.educative.io/answers/what-are-channels-in-golang)

# Today's workshop

Building a command line tool to search for board games 

If there's time:
- Pretty print results 
- Cross compile to other platforms e.g. Linux to Windows 
- Write a multi threaded version if time permits


## Initialise project as a Go project
Run ``` go mod init ``` in the directory where your project is. It should create a file called ```go.mod```.

## My first Go program :) 
```
package main

func main() {
    fmt.Println("hello, world")
}
 ```

 Run programs with ``` go run . ``` in the directory where your go program file is stored.


## Boardgame API

 We are using the Search endpoint: https://www.boardgameatlas.com/api/docs/search 

 We need:
 - Search term
 - Client id
 - Limit (e.g. 10)
 - Skip (e.g. 0)


## Compiling
 Use ``` go build . ```

 ``` go run ``` is for devt purposes.


## Questions
What are pointers and references?
What does strong and weak typing mean, and when would someone prefer a language that's strongly/weakly typed?

## Adding colors: 
Cool repo to add colors to the command line output: https://github.com/fatih/color
run ``` go get github.com/fatih/color ``` in your project dir 